docs(helm-controller): add ADR on helm controller replacement (#22)
cloudoperators/documentation: architecture-decision-records/008-greenhouse-helm-controller-ng.md

### FluxCD Helm Operator

[FluxCD](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2) provides a suite of controllers around the lifecycle of Helm Releases. These controllers are proven to be stable and reliable.

In order to replace the HelmController which Greenhouse uses, it is necessary to create Flux CRDs from the Plugin. This can be done by implementing a new controller that works with the Plugin CRDs.

The flow for the interaction between the Greenhouse and the FluxCD Helm Operator can look as follows:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  subgraph Greenhouse
    subgraph "Namespace [greenhouse]"
      pc[PluginController]
      fc[FluxCD HelmController]
    end 
    pd[PluginDefinition]
    subgraph "Namespace [my-org]"
      p[Plugin]
      c[Cluster]
      s["Secret [type: greenhouse.sap/kubeconfig]"]

      hrepo["HelmRepository(source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2)"]
      hr["HelmRelease(helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2)"]
    end
  end

  subgraph "Kubernetes Cluster"
    subgraph "namespace"
      rmr["Helm Release"]
    end
  end

  c --"owns"--> s
  p -..-> c
  p -..-> pd

  pc --"reconciles"-->p
  pr --"creates"--> hrepo
  pr --"creates"--> hr
  hr -..-> s

  fc --"reconciles"--> hr
  fc --> rmr
```

> The enduser facing changes are none. All the data required by the FluxCD Helm Operator is already present in the Plugin, PluginDefinition and Cluster CRDs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are no end-user-facing changes. All the data required by the FluxCD Helm Operator is already present in the Plugin, PluginDefinition and Cluster CRDs.
```

> The flux resources in the org namespace can even be hidden from the enduser, as they should be managed only by Greenhouse. The enduser should only see the status of Flux's HelmRelease resource reflected in the Plugin's status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Flux resources in the org namespace can even be hidden from the end user, as they should be managed only by Greenhouse. The end user should only see the status of Flux's HelmRelease resource reflected in the Plugin's status.
```

| Decision Driver     | Rating | Reason                        |
|---------------------|--------|-------------------------------|

> | Simplicity | +++    | Good, because there are no changes for the enduser    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Simplicity | +++    | Good, because there are no changes for the end user.    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | 
```

> | Control | -    | Negative, while FluxCD is open-source there is no guarantee to have proposed a feature request or bug fix merged. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Control | -    | Negative, while FluxCD is open source there is no guarantee to have a proposed feature request or a bug fix merged. |
```

| Stability | +++     | Good, because this is a proven solution that is widely adopted in the CNCF landscape.     |

> | Development cost |   o/-   | Neutral/Negative, because there is development effort to implement the controller that translates from Greenhouse CRDs into Flux CRDs. A benefit is that the Flux CRDs map with the current features of the Plugin & PluginDefinition CRDs. Also the Status must be reliably be transferred back to the Plugin. Other existing controllers (HelmTest, WorkloadStatus) may need to be adjusted. Another factor is the operations of the Flux controller(s) which is a continuous effort. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Development cost |   o/-   | Neutral/Negative, because there is a development effort to implement the controller that translates from Greenhouse CRDs into Flux CRDs. A benefit is that the Flux CRDs map with the current features of the Plugin & PluginDefinition CRDs. Also the Status must be reliably transferred back to the Plugin. Other existing controllers (HelmTest, WorkloadStatus) may need to be adjusted. Another factor is the operations of the Flux controller(s) which is a continuous effort. |
```

### ArgoCD

ArgoCD is a GitOps continuous delivery tool for Kubernetes. It follows the GitOps pattern of using Git repositories as the source of truth for defining the desired application state. It also supports Helm Charts as the source for Kubernetes Manifests but does not use Helm directly. All manifests are rendered and managed by ArgoCD itself. This means there are no Helm releases in the Kubernetes cluster.

It also supports a Hub-Spoke model where one ArgoCD instance can manage multiple clusters. Furthermore, there are CRDs available to specify the desired state of the application. Secrets cannot be referenced easily from Kubernetes Secrets.

Helm Charts that automatically generate values such as passwords or certificates do not work well out of the box with ArgoCD. The problem is that Argo will template the Helm Chart every time and compare with the deployed resources. This will always result in a diff. Therefore, it is necessary to adjust the values in such a way that they are stable between multiple executions of helm templates.

| Decision Driver     | Rating | Reason                        |
|---------------------|--------|-------------------------------|

> | Simplicity | -  | Negative, because it requires reworking of how the Helm Charts are configured. Helm Charts with generated values need to be abjusted.    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Simplicity | -  | Negative, because it requires reworking of how the Helm Charts are configured. Helm Charts with generated values need to be adjusted.    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
```

> | Control | -    | Negative, while ArgoCD is open-source there is no guarantee to have proposed a feature request or bug fix merged.    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Control | -    | Negative, while ArgoCD is open-source there is no guarantee to have a proposed feature request or a bug fix merged.    |
```

| Stability |	+++	| Good, because this is a proven solution that is widely adopted in the CNCF landscape. |
| Development cost | --  | Negative, the CRDs from ArgoCD do not map directly to what the Plugins specify for the release. Currently the Plugins are strongly tied with Helm releases, Argo manages the resources without Helm. |

## Related Decision Records <!-- optional -->

> none.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
None.
```
